h2. PageSprout

2 December 2008

This is the official beta of PageSprout 1.0 which is an awesome Ruby on Rails Content Management System.
This has been created by "Rocket Boys Ltd":http://www.rocketboys.co.nz.


h3. Maintainer Contact

Nate Walker (Nickname: kiwinewt) - Rocket Boys Ltd
< nate (at) rocketboys (dot) co (dot) nz >

h3. Requirements

This CMS requires:
* Ruby on Rails 2.2 (Included)
* The ferret gem

Depending on your setup:
* The mysql gem
* The sqlite3-ruby gem
  
To automatically install the *required* gems, run:

  rake gems:install

h3. Documentation

To generate documentation, run the command:

  rake doc:app
  
For more information, visit: "http://doc.pagesprout.com":http://doc.pagesprout.com

h3. Installation Instructions

Extract all the folders and files to the root of your web directory. You should then have this directory structure:
  app
  config
  db
  doc
  lib
  LICENCE
  log
  public
  Rakefile
  README
  script
  vendor

Please read the LICENCE file

Configure the CMS for your preferences by copying these files to these locations then modifying them as required:

  config/config.yml.sample                config/config.yml
  config/database.yml.sample              config/database.yml
  config/initializers/mail.rb.sample      config/initializers/mail.rb

Uncomment the first line in config/environment.rb:

  # ENV['RAILS_ENV'] ||= 'production'

Create the database by running these from the command line:

  rake db:create RAILS_ENV=production
  rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

Run the CMS from whatever Rails server setup you use. On a development machine, Mongrel is a good starting server.

Please raise issues, bugs, contributions by email - see "http://www.pagesprout.com":http://www.pagesprout.com

h3. Usage Overview

# Open a web browser and access the site from whatever location the server is set to run from (e.g.: http://localhost:3000)
# Create a new user. The first user will be the site admin.
# Create new pages and blogs via the menus.
# For new themes, please visit: "http://www.pagesprout.com":http://www.pagesprout.com
# For information on how to create a custom theme, please visit: "http://style.pagesprout.com":http://style.pagesprout.com
# To add a CAPTCHA to your contact page, please:
* Sign up at "http://recaptcha.net":http://recaptcha.net
* Add your Public and Private API keys to the settings page/config file.

h3. Known issues

* Currently none
